docs: tw567-arbitrum-chain-config-pt-5 (#2799)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/launch-arbitrum-chain/partials/config-challenge-period-l1.mdx

> Arbitrum chains, as optimistic rollups, utilize a challenge period (typically 6.4 days on mainnet chains like Arbitrum One, though customizable in Orbit chains) during which assertions about the L2 state—such as batch submissions of transactions—are posted to Ethereum (L1) and remain open to disputes. This process enables a validator that suspects an invalid state transition or fraudulent batch they initiate a challenge via fraud proofs submitted to L1 smart contracts. The enforcement on L1 involves the entire dispute resolution process occurring on Ethereum mainnet: assertions occur on L1, challenges trigger an interactive protocol, and if no valid challenge succeeds by the end of the period, the assertion is confirmed, enabling finality for actions like asset withdrawals or cross-layer messages. This protocol leverages Ethereum's consensus and security without requiring immediate on-chain verification for every L2 transaction, assuming optimism (i.e., batches are presumed correct unless proven otherwise).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arbitrum chains, as optimistic Rollups, use a challenge period (typically 6.4 days on mainnet chains like Arbitrum One, though customizable in Arbitrum chains). During this period, assertions about the child chain state—such as batch submissions of transactions—are posted to Ethereum and remain open to disputes. This process enables validators that suspect invalid state transitions or fraudulent batches to initiate challenges via fraud proofs submitted to Ethereum smart contracts. Ethereum enforces the entire dispute resolution process on mainnet: assertions occur on Ethereum, challenges trigger an interactive protocol, and if no valid challenge succeeds by the end of the period, the assertion is confirmed, enabling finality for actions like asset withdrawals or cross-chain messages. This protocol leverages Ethereum's consensus and security without requiring immediate onchain verification for every Arbitrum transaction, assuming optimism (that is, batches are presumed correct unless proven otherwise).
```
